Welcome to "What is Open Source Software (OSS)"
After watching this video, you will:
Define Open Source Software (OSS);
Understand the foundations of OSS;
Understand basic terminology;
Learn how Open Source Software differs from closed software;
Understand the Open Source Way.
How do you define Open Source Software?
Open source software is code that is published publicly.
Open source software is collaborative, relying on community production and peer review to
use, change, and share source code with each other.
Developers share insights, ideas, and code to create more innovative software solutions
both collectively and individually.
There are four key elements of Open Source Software:
Use: Anyone can run the software for any purpose;
View: Anyone can see the source code and understand how the software works;
Modify: Enhancements, bug fixes, and solutions can come from anywhere – even outside your
organization;
Share: Uniting contributions around a common shared purpose.
There are some common misconceptions about open source.
Open source does not always mean free of cost. While there may not be licensing costs, you
might have to consider other costs like support, training and maintenance.
Getting access to the source code of an application does not mean it becomes open source.
The creators still need to grant users access to view and modify the source code.
Open source software comes with a license that the users must adhere to.
Each open source project might have different usage terms and conditions.
If you are able to download software without paying for it, it does not mean it is open source.
Let's look at some basic terminology used in the open source world that you will see
again in this course.
A community is anybody related to the open source project. This is a group of people
who get some benefit from the project.
A contributor is somebody who contributes back to the project.
A committer is somebody who reviews and approves changes to the project source code. A committer
generally has write access to the source code repository.
All projects should have a code of conduct to protect the community from unhealthy and
destructive behavior.
Contribution guidelines lay down some rules around how the community can participate in
the open source project.
Upstream is the source software that others might use or modify.
Downstream is the programmer's working stream. When programmers modify code or create new
innovations, they can submit these changes to upstream.
The open source way is a set of principles supported by RedHat that relies on:
Transparency, ensuring everybody in the community has access to information and can build on
each other's ideas.
Collaboration, leading to better work and ideas together.
Delivering early, ensuring an iterative approach with the freedom to experiment.
Inclusion, enabling anybody in the community to provide ideas and speak up.
And finally, communities, formed around an aligned purpose with shared goals.
The following features of Closed Source Software make it different from Open Source Software:
Closed source software (CSS) is proprietary software that is not distributed to the public.
The software is encrypted, so only the original authors who created the code exclusively have
rights to legally copy, modify, update, and edit the source code.
Closed software imposes restrictions on what the end user can do with the application.
The source code is behind a paywall or otherwise protected preventing users from modifying,
sharing, copying, or republishing the source code.
In addition to open and closed source, FOSS (Free/Open Source Software) allows users access
to software from a more philosophical perspective.
There are a wide variety of free software licenses that can be used, modified, and sold
commercially including: GPL, LGPL, and BSD licenses.
Some of the most popular open source solutions range from the Linux operating system to VLC
for playing audio and video files, GIMP for image processing, Firefox for browsing the
World Wide Web and FileZilla for file transfers.
In this video, you learned that:
Open Source Software is code that community can modify and share.
Open Source community consists of committers, contributors and others who abide by a code
of conduct and contribution guidelines.
Open Source Way principles provide a way for collaboration and open contribution.